Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
To achieve glory in Roman society,
every man must excel on the battlefield.
One of those men is a 19-year-old recruit
named Julius Caesar.
Push forward!
Come on!
This will be Caesar's
first brush with death.
But it won't be his last.
Long before he becomes one
of the most powerful leaders in history,
Julius Caesar is a lowly soldier
in the Roman army.
Hurry up! We march in an hour!
Caesar is born into
a wealthy family,
but when his father joins
the wrong side of a civil war,
the family is stripped
of their power and wealth.
And by the age of 16,
Caesar is left with nothing.
Penniless and disgraced,
he knows the only way to regain
his family's glory
is through the military.
Caesar seems to been driven by the same
desires as many man of the day,
the desire to be the wealthiest,
the most celebrated,
the most famous of all.
Glory was the one thing
that all Romans wanted.
That lay in military success.
Over the course of a decade,
Caesar works his way up
through the military ranks,
becoming a battle-hardened warrior
along the way.
Julius Caesar was able to show himself
as a superior soldier.
Many people soldiered on,
but he was actually better than others.
One of the hallmarks of Caesar was that
he would throw himself into battle.
There was enormous personal risk.
Push forward!
Caesar and thousands of
other soldiers
are conquering territory for Rome.
In the last 400 years,
Rome has expanded
from a city of just three square miles
to a super-power of over
720,000 square miles,
stretching from Africa to Asia.
At this moment in history,
Rome is the most powerful state
in the Mediterranean.
They had conquered everything
west of Greece
and were beginning to expand
even further than that.
But Rome's military machine
requires one crucial component.
Slaves.
With each victory, the army captures
thousands of enemy soldiers and citizens,
forcing them to fill
the least desirable jobs.
Becoming servants.
Gladiators.
And most importantly, builders.
Slaves construct new roadways so the army
can expand into even more territories.
The Romans were fantastic engineers.
Without bulldozers, but with slaves.
It's one of the keys to their success
and they were really without peer
in that realm.
By 75 B.C.,
more than two million slaves
have built nearly 50,000 miles of road,
allowing the Republic
to continue to expand.
It's a Roman system
that's worked for centuries...
until Spartacus.
While Caesar is building
his military career in central Italy,
to the south,
an escaped slave leads a bloody revolt.
He's a former gladiator named Spartacus.
And he wants more than just freedom.
He wants revenge.
Spartacus leads a reign of terror
across Italy
to punish the society that
enslaved him.
Spartacus had a very good chance
of success
because of the core group of his fighters
were gladiators who still, at that time,
had superior fighting techniques
to Roman legionnaires.
So in hand-to-hand combat,
these folks were almost invincible.
As Spartacus and his troops move north,
their army grows to 100,000 men.
Every troop that the Roman Senate
had sent out to try and defeat Spartacus
had effectively been defeated.
They weren't prepared
and it took them quite by surprise.
Now, Spartacus' army
is closing in on Rome.
The only thing standing in their way
are 35,000 Roman soldiers.
Among them is Julius Caesar.
42 wounded,
25 killed.
44 wounded,
33 killed.
The general in charge
of Caesar's legion
is a wealthy politician
named Marcus Crassus.
Crassus was the richest man in Rome.
He wants to be a big politician.
but to do that in Rome,
you had to have military success.
Money was one thing,
but you needed to show also
that you were capable of leading
the legions and of winning Rome glory.
How many missing?
At least a hundred. All presumed dead.
We should fall back.
Defend the road to Rome,
and wait for reinforcements.
Shall I send scouts at first light?
Fine. Do it.
That's a mistake.
Retreating...
will give them time to regroup
and attack again.
If we fall back, they'll chase us down,
and pick us off as we go.
Defending our position
is no longer an option.
I'm not talking about
defending our position.
We've been letting them
dictate the battle.
What we need to do...
is take the offensive.
Engage them on our terms.
- We are outnumbered.
- Let him speak.
At daybreak.
When they least expect it.
Take them by surprise.
This is our chance.
Their main camp is here,
at the base of the mountain range.
Caesar is a man of action
and a man of swiftness.
He gets things done.
This is not to say that Caesar's hasty.
Caesar's very careful, cautious,
and calculating.
We could split into two legions,
one from the east and one from the west.
We'd have them surrounded.
That's right.
Give the orders. We march before dawn.
Caesar convinces Crassus,
knowing that if his plan fails,
Rome could be destroyed.
For Caesar, the battle is about more
than just attaining power.
It's about protecting everything
he holds dear.
"Every day that passes
is a day closer to victory,
and a day closer to coming home
to both of you.
Not a day passes that I don't think
of the two of you.
You're always in my thoughts
and in my prayers."
Caesar and Cornelia had been married
for 15 years.
She had provided him
with a daughter, Julia.
And he shows great loyalty
and devotion to his wife.
I know you're tired.
I know you're hungry.
So am I.
And so is our enemy.
Spartacus and his men fight without fear,
because they have nothing to lose.
We do.
And that's what makes us dangerous.
When I fight side by side
with you tonight,
I fight for my wife.
And I fight for my daughter.
We fight for our wives.
Our daughters.
We fight...
because if we fail tonight,
the enemy will slaughter them
without mercy.
- Are you with me?
- Yes.
Are you with me?
Yes!
In the middle of the night,
Caesar and a Roman legion head towards
Spartacus' camp,
ready to strike at daybreak.
After two years of bloody conflict,
and more than 100,000 dead,
Crassus has achieved
what was considered impossible:
Killing Spartacus...
and destroying his rebellion.
In the final battle
between Spartacus and Crassus' army,
there was an immense slaughter.
And although Spartacus died,
his body was never found.
We've rounded up the prisoners.
What do you want to do with them?
This is a waste of resources.
We could put them to good use.
Carrying our equipment, setting up camp.
They're worthless to us dead.
They're proof of what I did.
Of what we did.
To glorify his victory,
Crassus orders 6,000
of the captured rebels
to be crucified along the road to Rome.
One every 100 feet...
for 60 miles.
With Spartacus' defeat,
Crassus hopes that his newfound glory
will allow him to gain
political power back in Rome...
by being elected to the highest office
in the land,
the consul.
In 70 B.C., Rome is not yet an empire.
It's a republic,
home to nearly four million people,
from wealthy politicians
to lowly slaves.
Instead of an emperor or a king,
Romans are governed by an elected senate.
But ruling over them is the consul,
an official who wields more power
than any other man in Rome.
The consuls were the chief executive
of the Republic.
They were the commander-in-chief
of the armies,
invested with supreme power.
They were the most powerful man in Rome.
For Caesar,
supporting a potential consul
puts him on track
to rise quickly within the government.
Caesar aligned himself with
Crassus because
he saw it as a way that would lead
to his own path to power.
Crassus had the wealth
and the political connections,
and so Crassus was
a very important person for him.
But Crassus is not the only
military leader
with his sights on the consul.
One hundred miles away,
another general is looking to claim glory
in the war against Spartacus.
His name is Pompey Magnus.
We've just received word.
Spartacus has fallen.
The war's over.
How?
Defeated by Crassus' legion.
What remains of his army?
They've all been killed or taken captive.
All of them?
Tens of thousands of rebels,
and all of them have been killed
or captured by Crassus?
Some might have escaped.
Find them.
Order the scouts to track them down.
And order the men to break camp,
I want them ready to march.
If there was no Julius Caesar,
Pompey would be known to us
as the greatest military commander
that the Roman republic had ever produced.
This is someone who was really driven
by his own personal ego
and he tried to take as much credit
as he possibly could.
So, at the very last minute,
Pompey tried to cash in
on Crassus' success
against the Spartacus revolt.
Pompey rounds up slaves
who escaped the battle
and quickly slaughters them.
Now, all he has to do is return to Rome
before Crassus.
More wine!
Hear, hear.
Here.
Crassus successfully defeats
Spartacus's army.
But then,
Pompey goes back to Rome and says,
"I am actually the one who finished off
the slave uprising.
I am the one who led the last battle."
This is definitely something
that Pompey would do.
Pompey gets all the credit,
Pompey gets all the glory
and Crassus is still looked down on.
What's this?
What do you think it is?
We're celebrating Spartacus' defeat.
At whose hands? Yours?
Don't bring down the mood.
You look exhausted. Please, help yourself.
Tell them or I will.
I want to make an announcement.
I know we're all here to celebrate
my victory over Spartacus,
and putting down the rebellion, but...
I can't take all the credit.
Had it not been for Crassus
and his men,
I might not have been able
to defeat Spartacus in battle.
So please, a toast to our guests.
I couldn't have done it
without their help.
- Hear, hear!
What exactly did you hope to accomplish
coming here?
Did you think anyone would believe you
without Spartacus' head?
There's been enough blood.
My men won't hesitate to spill yours.
Leave.
It's not worth it.
You should listen to your friend.
Come on.
Congratulations...
on your victory.
With Pompey taking credit
for the victory against Spartacus,
Caesar fears he's lost his chance
to move up in the government.
But at least he's finally home.
It's lovely to see you.
- We missed you.
- Well, I missed you too.
I liked your letters.
Oh, you got them?
He may be reunited
with his wife and daughter,
but Caesar doesn't realize
that he's about to be pushed
into a new war...
between the two most powerful men in Rome.
Pompey had returned
from campaigns in the east,
and he wanted land
for his veteran soldiers.
The soldiers looked to their commanders
to provide for them upon returning home.
But there were some in the Senate,
and especially the circle
that was grouping around Crassus,
who didn't like Pompey.
They wanted to make life difficult
for him, to put him back in his place.
It is time to award land in Campania
to the seventh and eighth legions.
We cannot begin giving away land
before sufficient oversight is in place.
Until there is a functioning system
of government in the region,
we have no control.
Sufficient oversight is in place
and will improve as time goes on.
We owe it to these men
to give them their due,
after all they have sacrificed.
No one is questioning their sacrifice.
Once oversight is established,
his soldiers will get what they're owed.
It is just a matter of proper procedure.
How long must these men wait?
An exception must be made.
Pompey doesn't think
the rules of the Senate apply to him.
Don't let him push you around.
If we do not make good on our promises,
what loyalty will these men have to Rome?
Postpone the vote...
further debate is still required.
There had been virtual gridlock
between Pompey and Crassus.
They had argued constantly,
and so nothing had been achieved.
All those in favor of postponing the vote?
The vote is postponed.
The look on his face...
Pompey won't let this go.
There's nothing he can do.
His legions are standing by,
just outside Rome, waiting to attack
at a moment's notice.
They're waiting to collect their payment,
nothing more.
Once they realize the lands
they've been promised won't be released,
they'll disperse.
Will they?
If it comes to it,
my legions are stationed nearby.
I've seen you on the battlefield.
You're not afraid to fight.
Pompey has more men.
My army brought down Spartacus.
Not his.
If war is coming,
I need to know you're on my side.
Of course.
After over a decade
of peace within Rome,
Caesar finds himself
caught in the middle of a bitter feud
that's edging towards violence.
But suddenly,
he's faced with a new crisis.
Caesar's wife of 15 years, Cornelia,
falls gravely ill.
You sent for the doctor?
He'll be here in the morning.
You get some rest.
I'll take care of her.
While Caesar mourns
the loss of his wife,
tensions between Crassus and Pompey
continue to escalate.
The government had reached a point
where nothing was going on,
nothing was happening,
nothing was being done anymore.
Even something as simple
as approving the vast territories
that Pompey had conquered,
not even that could get done anymore.
The Romans couldn't even approve
a military conquest anymore.
As the stalemate continues,
Crassus and Pompey prepare their armies
to march on Rome at any moment...
threatening to spark a civil war.
Everyone worried about
where all this was going to end.
What was Pompey's end goal?
What was Crassus really up to?
Years earlier, Caesar watched
as his father aligned himself
with the wrong side of a civil war,
ruining his family's reputation.
Now, he's determined
not to repeat those mistakes.
Pompey had great military glory.
Crassus had all the money.
For Caesar, it's a great risk
as to which side he should back,
because he knows
that if he backs the wrong man,
he can lose everything.
As Caesar watches
the conflict spiral out of control,
he realizes that he can use the crisis
to his advantage.
Caesar devises a plan
that's as dangerous as it is brilliant.
If it fails, everything he's worked for
will be destroyed.
But if it succeeds,
it could be the opportunity of a lifetime.
Caesar was far and away one
of the most ambitious figures in history.
His life was filled with this drive
for power,
this ambition for greater glory,
this desire
to be at the top of the Republican system.
You're late.
You should be happy I came at all.
What do you want?
I'll tell you when we're all here.
Your message said to come alone.
It did.
What is this?
Trust me.
We're here to talk.
You two are the most powerful men in Rome.
But as long you fight each other,
neither of you will get what you want.
You won't get your tax cuts,
and you will never pay off your soldiers.
You're in a stalemate.
And the only way to break it,
is to work together.
Then, nothing will stand in your way.
Why should I trust him?
Because the only other option
is civil war.
And what do you get out of all this?
You'll need someone in the Senate
with enough authority
to push your laws through.
And for obvious reasons,
that can't be either of you.
Get me elected consul,
and I'll make sure
your legislation gets passed.
Of course,
the real power will rest with you.
And how do I know once I get you elected
that you two won't turn on me?
I'll push your legislation through first.
No, that's not enough.
- I think that's more than enough.
- Legislation can be repealed.
You'll need to do better.
Caesar's driving ambition
was to be the consul of Rome.
From the time that Caesar
was a little kid,
he wanted to be the consul of Rome.
I think he expected that of himself
and it was what he was aiming at
his entire life.
The vows of marriage
are a sacred bond
which can never be broken...
To earn his trust,
Caesar offers Pompey
his daughter's hand in marriage.
The marriage marks the beginning
of the most powerful alliance
in Roman history...
that will come to be known
as the Triumvirate.
Do you swear by the gods,
to loyally serve the Senate
and the people of Rome?
I swear by the gods, to loyally serve
the Senate and the people of Rome.
Caesar brought Crassus and Pompey
together to advance his own career.
He needs the money from Crassus,
and then also the support of Pompey
to win the consulship
that he's been after for his whole life...
It is with the approval of the Senate,
that I hereby name you,
Julius Caesar, Consul of Rome.
...so that the three of them
can then go forth and dominate Rome
as no three men had ever
dominated Rome before.
But within a year,
everything they've built
will begin to collapse.
And Julius Caesar will find himself
on the frontlines
of the biggest war Rome has ever known.
Stand your ground!
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org